From: %(sender)s
Subject: [%(prefix)s%(pspace)s%(kind)s%(vspace)s%(version)s%(nspace)s%(number)s] NOVA: a new file system for persistent memory

This is an RFC patch series that impements NOVA (NOn-Volatile memory
Accelerated file system), a new file system built for PMEM.  It is relatived to
Linux 4.12.

Nova is stable enough to run complex applications.  This RFC is intended to
spread the word about NOVA and gather feedback to guide its development toward
eventual inclusion upstream.

Why is NOVA?
============
NOVA's goal is to provide a high-performance, full-featured, production-ready
file system tailored for byte-addressable non-volatile memories (e.g., NVDIMMs
and Intel's soon-to-be-released 3DXpoint DIMMs).  It combines design elements
from many other file systems to provide a combination of high-performance,
strong consistency guarantees, and comprehensive data protection.  NOVA support
DAX-style mmap and making DAX performs well is a first-order priority in NOVA's
design.  NOVA was developed by the [Non-Volatile Systems Laboratory][NVSL] in
the [Computer Science and Engineering Department][CSE] at the [University of
California, San Diego][UCSD].

NOVA is primarily a log-structured file system, but rather than maintain a
single global log for the entire file system, it maintains separate logs for
each file (inode).  NOVA breaks the logs into 4KB pages, they need not be
contiguous in memory.  The logs only contain metadata.

File data pages reside outside the log, and log entries for write operations
point to data pages they modify.  File modification uses copy-on-write (COW) to
provide atomic file updates.

For file operations that involve multiple inodes, NOVA use small, fixed-sized
redo logs to atomically append log entries to the logs of the inodes involned.

This structure keeps logs small and make garbage collection very fast.  It also
enables enormous parallelism during recovery from an unclean unmount, since
threads can scan logs in parallel.

NOVA replicates and checksums all metadata structures and protects file data
with RAID-4-style parity.  It supports checkpoints to facilitate backups.

Documentation/filesystems/nova.txt contains some lower-level implementation and
usage information.  A more thorough discussion of NOVA's goals and design is
avaialable in these two papers:

**NOVA: A Log-structured File system for Hybrid Volatile/Non-volatile Main Memories** 
[PDF](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~swanson/papers/FAST2016NOVA.pdf)
*Jian Xu and Steven Swanson*
Published in [FAST 2016][FAST2016]

**Hardening the NOVA File System**
[PDF](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~swanson/papers/TechReport2017HardenedNOVA.pdf)
UCSD-CSE Techreport CS2017-1018
*Jian Xu, Lu Zhang, Amirsaman Memaripour, Akshatha Gangadharaiah, Amit Borase, Tamires Brito Da Silva, Andy Rudoff, Steven Swanson*

---

%(shortlog)s
%(diffstat)s
--
Signature
